---
characters: 
  - 1003  # Sophie Adeyemi
  - 1001  # John Doyle (Jamal)
  - 1005  # Tom Kaczynski
  - 1002  # Alice Williams
locations:
  - 101    # The Happy Place
sequence: 2
title: "Sophie's Observation"
---

[Sophie](/stories/the-happy-place/characters/1003) stood outside [The Happy Place](/stories/the-happy-place/locations/101). She would always take a moment before entering to… she actually didn't know why she stopped. She felt she needed to still herself. To savour the moment. To give respect to the place that had changed her life so much. 

She walked slowly to the door, and cautiously reached for the handle, always fearful that it can't be real. She couldn't comprehend how so much of the world's joy could exist on the other side of this old, roughly painted door. Her hand grasped the door, as she pushed against it, she filled with a joy that had never faded in the hundreds of times she'd been here.

Inside, she took a moment to breathe in, and wallow in her own happiness. There were the usual familiar faces there, she scanned across them, taking the moment in. Wondering where her wife was. As the word "wife" crossed her mind, she smiled. The concept that she was married was so alien to her, that she was married to a woman even more so. To her right was [John](/stories/the-happy-place/characters/1001) and somebody she didn't know, though she had seen his face before. He turned and looked at her, out of the corner of her eye, the movement made her look. Their eyes met, and for the briefest moment a smile flashed across his face.

The smile was unremarkable, she was self aware enough to know that she was attractive, her tall stature typically made men react to seeing her. So this guy smiling at her was unremarkable. What caught her attention though was how quickly it was withdrawn. He tightened his lips and tried to remove his expressions. It was a look that usually came because a wife was nearby. The guilt of an acknowledged desire. She scanned across the desk to try to understand it. 

She knew of John, she respected the work he had done. His name had been common around the dinner table when she was a child. He was a spark that had ignited a many criminal investigations. So it was obvious that the news paper cuttings, financial records and assorted documents were part of an investigation. Whoever was sitting across from him really didn't want any of it to get out. 

And then [Alice](/stories/the-happy-place/characters/1002) came into view, and everything melted into irrelevance. It took all of her effort not to sprint into her arms. She leaned across the counter to hold her, to touch her, to smell her. She smelt of work, and coffee, and happiness, and roses. She held on as her earlier memories of Paris invaded her mind. The roses were replaced with the smoke that lingered on the threshold of her Paris Window. She pulled Alice in tighter as a sob clawed to escape her throat. 

Alice pulled away, while still holding her hand. "Everything ok?" 

"Oh yeah, just wanted to be here" 

Alice squeezed her hand, to acknowledge the lie as it slipper from her palm. In a brief second Sophie pulled her blanket of composure across all of the emotions that were set loose. 

"Who's that guy sitting with John?" 

"That's the guy who's been dating Josephine, he owns the paper John works for" 

"The arsehole? Well that fits" her mind flashed across the papers on the table, and the look [he](/stories/the-happy-place/characters/1005) had given her. Now her curiosity was piqued. Or it may have been her father's curiosity living vicariously through her. Either way it was something she couldn't ignore. So she went and sat at the table next to them. To hear the story that she was reasonably confident she already knew.